---
layout:     post
title:      "Cloud Real-Estate: Build vs. Rent"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2013-05-02 12:00:00
author:     "Ryan Johnson"
header-img: "img/post-bg-06.jpg"
---

<p>This past month I had an opportunity to present a couple of sessions at the South Florida VMUG User Conference on behalf of VMware. The VMUG leadership and RoundTower put on a terrific conference that drew ~450 attendees and ~40 vendors in the Exchange.

<p>My second session of the day was titled "Cloud Real Estate: Build vs. Rent</a>. No, this session wasn't about foreclosures or how to short sale your cloud. Instead, this session was focused on the three models to consume a VMware vCloud.

<p>So, lets dive it a talk about the theme for this prevention.

<p>Across the industry, IT organizations struggle to keep up with the traditional "reactive-mode" that has characterized the delivery model for decades. No matters the size of the organization, there is intense pressure to quickly deliver the infrastructure and services needed to acceleration business innovation. When organizations are unable to respond with speed and agility innovation is stifled, opportunities are lost and catalysts for ungoverned "shadow-IT"operations take form. Each of these produce quantifiable business risk that is untenable.

<p>Even while many of these IT organizations realize that they must address becoming a strategic business enabler rather that an impediment to innovation there is confusion about how to best deploy and consume a cloud. They are turning to their strategic, trusted vendors to guide them on their path.

<p>VMware, for example, has been building clouds over the past three years. We started with some of the biggest names in cloud services. As a result, we can provide customers several options that are interoperable, flexible and provide assured controls.

<p>There are three way to consume a VMware vCloud in a comprehensive model:

<ul>
    <li><strong>The Private Cloud</strong> ~ On Premise, Built with VMware vCloud Suite</li>
    <li><strong>The Partner Cloud</strong> ~ VMware vCloud Partner Ecosystem</li>
    <li><a href="http://blogs.vmware.com/vcloud/2013/03/vmware-cloud-evaluation-and-vcloud-hybrid-service-whats-the-difference.html" onclick="_gaq.push(['_trackEvent', 'outbound-article', 'http://blogs.vmware.com/vcloud/2013/03/vmware-cloud-evaluation-and-vcloud-hybrid-service-whats-the-difference.html', 'VMware vCloud Hybrid Service']);"  target="_blank"><strong>VMware vCloud Hybrid Service</strong></a> ~ VMware Branded and Operated Cloud Coming in 2013</li>
</ul>

<p>This model provides organizations the ability to the flexibility, security and assurance for all business workloads. Think of it way, you can <strong>Build</strong>, <strong>Rent</strong> and/or <strong>Integrate</strong> your business into the Hybrid Cloud.

<p>This model breaks up the supply of infrastructure resources from the demand generated by your business or the market. Infrastructure resources ~ compute, storage and network ~ are delivered with security and compliance controls. Business workloads are encapsulated in virtual machines with standard configurations.

<p>Behind the veil is a common platform, a common management and a common security model provided through VMware technology. It's the same technology stack that is used to build the on-premise private cloud, the partner based public cloud and our own cloud service in a consistent and flexible manner ~ the vCloud Suite.

<p>"Commodity" public cloud service certainly offer extremely fast access to resources but not necessarily with performance, security and hybrid workload portability.

<p>So, the characteristics of the enterprise hybrid cloud delivers the best of both worlds:

<ul>
    <li><strong>Agility</strong> ~ Simple, on-demand provisioning and scaling of cloud resources with predictable, consistent SLAs.</li>
    <li><strong>Trust</strong> ~ Standards based security for workloads and users with assured compliance.</li>
    <li><strong>Extension</strong> ~ Bridge the on-premise private cloud outside of your own datacenter to a globally consistent service that is compatible with your business&#8217;s workloads with little-to-zero change.</li>
</ul>

<p>As mentioned prior, the key is the technology stack. VMware believes that the underpinning architecture for the cloud, especially the Hybrid Cloud, is the Software-Defined Data Center ("SDDC")
<p>VMware is extending the cloud with the technology stack that provides a common platform, common management, common orchestration and automation, common security and unified security ~ plus a single support call.

<p>So, why the drive to the the hybrid cloud model?

<p>Simply put, there is an chasm that has grown between the business and IT. The business requires speed, agility and the ability to innovate to be competitive in their markets. IT on the other hand is clearly focused on maintaining a reliable, secure infrastructure. IT needs to change their role from managers technology to a strategic enablers of business services while business workloads modernize to consume the full potential of the cloud.

<p>From a top-down perspective, embracing the hybrid cloud provides the business the agility they need to be competitive. Allowing the business to deploy application workloads anywhere.

<p>From a bottom-up perspective, It is able to provide agility to the business, but in an environment that they can operated with assure security, governance and compliance standards.

<p>It's a win-win situation for the business and for IT. And only one that VMware can deliver..